# Sleeping Dragon Hobby Shop - Testing 

## Contents 
- [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)
    - [HTML](#html)
    - [Custom CSS Styling](#custom-css-styling)
    - [JavaScript Code Testing](#javascript-code-testing)
    - [Python Code Testing](#python-code-testing)
    - [Automated Performance And Quality Testing](#automated-performance-and-quality-testing)
- [User Stories Testing](#user-stories-testing)
- [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
    - [Features](#features)
        - [Home](#home)
        - [Base Template](#base-template)
        - [User Authentication](#user-authentication)
        - [Contact](#contact)
        - [Products](#products)
        - [Basket](#basket)
        - [Checkout](#checkout)
        - [User Profile](#user-profile)
    - [Form Validation](#form-validation)
    - [Responsive Design Testing](#responsive-design-testing)
    - [Browser Compatibility Testing](#browser-compatibility-testing)
    - [Stripe Webhook Handler Testing](#stripe-webhook-handler-testing)
    - [Restricted Features Security Testing](#restricted-features-security-testing)
- [Bugs Fixed During Testing](#bugs-fixed-during-testing)
- [Bugs Remaining](#bugs-remaining)

## Automated Testing 

### HTML 
All **HTML** code was validated using the [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/) 
regularly during the development process. **The HTML Source Code** was regularly viewed for each page 
using **Chrome Developer Tools** (right click, *Inspect*) and passed through the 
[W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/).  
Various minor errors were encountered and corrected during the final **HTML** validation check. 
All HTML code now passes validation with no errors or warnings. See [HTML Validation Reports](media/testing/validation/html).

### CSS
Custom CSS from [base.css](static/css/base.css), [profile.css](profiles/static/profiles/css/profile.css) and [checkout.css](checkout/static/checkout/css/checkout.css) was validated using the [W3C CSS Validation Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/).  
No errors were generated. See [CSS Validation Reports](media/testing/validation/css).

### JavaScript
The custom Javascript from [countryfield.js](profiles/static/profiles/js/countryfield.js), [stripe_elements.js](checkout/static/checkout/js/stripe_elements.js) and [quantity_input_script.html](products/templates/products/includes/quantity_input_script.html), as well as all script elements within app templates, were validated using the [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) static code analysis tool with no errors and only a few warnings, which were corrected before re-running the validation. See [JS Validation Reports](media/testing/validation/js). Due to the lack of complexity in the Javascript code, automated testing of the JavaScript code was deemed unnecessary. 

### Python
Pylint was used to verify **Python** code. Any errors were corrected and re-run until correct. In some cases, where linting errors were erroneous or unavoidable these were suppressed (most commonly 'E1101: Class has no objects member'). Files generated by django and unit tests were ignored.

<em>E1101</em> (no-member) errors are ignored for all apps, as Django dynamically adds 'objects' Manager instance to all models, but pylint is unable to detect this. This warning could be avoided by adding a `objects = models.Manager()` declaration to all models, but I have elected to suppress the warning rather than add unnecessary code to the application.
<em>R0903</em> (too-few-public-methods) error ignored for .forms as all forms are designed to store information, populate the database, allow users to edit database entries, and iterate through form data in templates.

<em>W0613</em> (unused-argument) errors ignored for profiles.models as arguments are necessary for creation of user profiles in the Django admin.

<em>R0201</em> (no-self-user) error ignored for checkout.models generate_order_number method, as self is necessary to attach the generated order number to the particular Order instance
<em>W0613</em> (unused-argument) errors ignored for checkout.signals as arguments are necessary for updating order total when updating and removing lineitems in the shopping cart.
<em>W0125</em> (using-constant-test) error ignored for checkout.views as value is not actually a constant.
<em>R0914</em> (too-many-locals) error ignored for checkout.views and checkout.webhook_handler as both methods in question are adapted from the Stripe documentation
<em>W0703</em> (broad-except) error in checkout.views, checkout.webhook_handler and checkout.webhooks ignored as specific error handling is implemented where necessary, and other errors are handled in the same way so extra code for more specific exceptions would be redundant.

See [Pylint Validation Reports](media/testing/validation/python).

### Python Unit Tests

Automated unit tests were created to ensure correct functioning of various components. These include the app database models, views, forms and signal functions.
To perform automated testing, from the project root directory type:
`>python3 manage.py test`

A total of **68** **Unit Tests** have been written. After **Unit Testing** was implemented, **Unit Tests** were run each time a feature was added or changed.  
All **68** tests run successfully without errors or warnings, see [Python Unit Testing Validation](media/testing/validation/python/unit-testing-val.jpg).

### Performance

Performance and Quality was tested with the [Lighthouse](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk?hl=en) 
extension for [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/intl/en_uk/chrome/).

To improve **Accessibility** and **SEO**, missing *rel="noopener"* and *aria-label* attributes were added to the some of the buttons and links in the **HTML Templates**. *meta description* was added to the head element to improve **SEO**. Heading elements were adjusted to appear in sequentially-descending order to improve **Accessibility**. Form inputs had *label* elemtents added where necessary to improve **Accessability**.

To improve **Best Practices** and **Performance**, images were resized to 300px x 300px and compressed. Performance could be improved further by converting images to a next-gen format like WebP; however, due to the time constraints of the project this would need to be done as part of a future development phase, as the fixture files currently all refer to .png or .jpg image filepaths and converting images to WebP would also require changing every image filepath. Due to the sheer amount of products and associated images, **Performance** is heavily dependent on how many images the site is required to load. Upgrading the server to use HTTP/2 would drastically improve **Performance** scores, but is beyond the scope of this project. However, this is mitigated somewhat by the fact that, although users *can* browse all products at once, it is highly unlikely that the typical user would utilise the site in this way rather than using the specific navigation menus and search functionality. 

Final [Lighthouse](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk?hl=en) scores are tabulated below:  

Page|Performance|Accessiblity|Best Practices|SEO|
----|-----------|------------|--------------|---|
Home|99|97|100|100

Products|97|100|100|100
Product Detail|98|100|100|100
Product Add|98|100|100|100
Product Edit|99|100|100|100
Product Review|98|100|100|100
Cart|98|100|100|100
Checkout|92|100|100|100
Checkout Success|97|100|100|100
Login|99|100|100|100
Logout|99|100|100|100
Register|99|100|100|100
User Profile|98|100|100|100
Order History|98|100|100|100

Order Contact|98|100|100|100


See [Final Lighthouse Reports](media/testing/validation/performance/final).